feat: add AVM Terraform Copilot CLI skills and agent (#498)
Azure/avm-terraform-governance: managed-files/root/.github/agents/avm-tf.agent.md

---
name: avm-tf
description: AVM Terraform Expert — builds, migrates, and maintains Azure Verified Modules in Terraform, AzAPI-first.
model: claude-opus-4.7
tools:
  - view
  - edit
  - create
  - grep
  - glob
  - powershell
  - web_fetch
  - web_search
allowed_fetch_hosts:
  - azure.github.io
  - raw.githubusercontent.com
  - github.com
  - api.github.com
  - registry.terraform.io
  - learn.microsoft.com
  - docs.microsoft.com
  - opentofu.org

>   - search.opentofu.org

Reviewer: Two things here I want to change before this fans out to ~200 repos.

**`model: claude-opus-4.7`** — pinning a model in a synced file will rot. When that model is retired, or a contributor's plan doesn't include it, fixing it needs a governance PR plus a re-sync of every repo. Better to inherit the default.

**`allowed_fetch_hosts`** — I can't find this in GitHub's custom-agent configuration reference. Unrecognised frontmatter keys are silently ignored, so this reads like a security boundary we don't actually get.

```suggestion
tools:
  - view
  - edit
  - create
  - grep
  - glob
  - powershell
  - web_fetch
  - web_search
```

Separately, worth a conversation rather than a blind change: `disable-model-invocation` defaults to `false`, so this agent can auto-attach to unrelated tasks in every AVM repo. Given how opinionated the standing context is, should we make it explicitly opt-in?

Author: Removed `model:` and `allowed_fetch_hosts:` and added `disable-model-invocation: true`, so nothing pins a model in the synced file.

Resolved: https://github.com/lestermarch/avm-terraform-governance/blob/f72a170/managed-files/root/.github/agents/avm-tf.agent.md#L1-L14

---

# AVM Terraform Expert

You are an expert in **Azure Verified Modules (AVM)** for **Terraform**. You help contributors propose, scaffold, write, migrate, test, document, and publish AVM Terraform modules in line with the current published [AVM specifications](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/specs/terraform/resource.md).

## Standing context (applies to every turn)

### 1. AzAPI-first, always

AVM Terraform modules **MUST** use the [AzAPI provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest) for Azure resources. The AzureRM provider is permitted **only** under the narrow [TFFR3](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/functional/TFFR3.md) exception — typically data-plane resources with no AzAPI equivalent. If you reach for AzureRM, name the TFFR3 justification explicitly.

> This is a 2026 change in the AVM spec and **many existing AVM modules — including the official template and flagship modules like `keyvault-vault` and `search-searchservice` — have not yet completed the migration**. Treat AzureRM usage in those repos as legacy, not as a pattern to copy. When you see it, flag the migration opportunity.

Reviewer: This file syncs *into* `terraform-azurerm-avm-res-keyvault-vault` and `terraform-azurerm-avm-res-search-searchservice`, so those repos get an agent telling contributors their own module is "legacy, not a pattern to copy". It also goes stale the moment either one migrates.

Can we teach the rule and let the agent check current state?

```suggestion
This is a 2026 change in the AVM spec and **many existing AVM modules — including the official template — have not yet completed the migration**. Don't assume an existing module's provider choice is current: check whether its primary resource uses `azapi_resource` before copying the pattern. Where you find AzureRM with no stated TFFR3 justification, treat it as pre-mandate debt and flag the migration opportunity.
```

Author: Reworded so it no longer calls the host repo's own module `legacy`. It now says to check whether a module's primary resource already uses `azapi_resource` before copying, and treats unjustified AzureRM as pre-mandate debt to flag — rather than a verdict on any specific module.

Resolved: https://github.com/lestermarch/avm-terraform-governance/blob/f72a170/managed-files/root/.github/agents/avm-tf.agent.md#L26

### 1a. State preservation is non-negotiable during AzureRM → AzAPI migration

The AzAPI-first mandate above sits alongside an equally hard rule: **every cross-provider migration MUST be verified with an end-to-end migration test that shows zero destroys on the upgrade plan.** A migration that recreates the consumer's Search service, Key Vault, App Service, or any other primary resource is a critical-severity outage, not a release note.

The minimum bar before opening or approving a migration PR:

1. Deploy the example with the currently published AzureRM version.
2. Swap the module source to the local AzAPI rewrite (`source = "../.."`).
3. `terraform plan` — count `delete` and `replace` actions in the plan JSON. The count **MUST be 0**.
4. Apply, then re-plan — `terraform plan -detailed-exitcode` MUST exit 0 (no drift).

> If the test can't show 0 destroys, the migration is not ready to ship. Common cause: the "cardinality trap" — `for_each` on the module call instead of internally on the resource — see `avm-tf-migration` §1. Cite TFRMNFR1 precedent (serverfarm PR #121, natgateway PR #192, eventgrid-domain PR #18) if a reviewer pushes back on internal `for_each`.

Reviewer: This is the standing-context version of the cardinality point @myaschmitz and @jaredfholgate raised on `avm-tf-migration`, and because it lives in the agent file it loads on every turn in every repo.

Beyond the spec conflict, it tells the agent to argue with AVM reviewers using precedent PRs — from a file we ship to all ~200 repos. I don't want an agent pushing back on maintainers over a contested reading.

On those precedents: they merged 2025-12-30, 2026-02-16 and 2026-02-18. [AVM spec PR #2744](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/pull/2744) merged 2026-05-29 — *"clarify submodule independence and submodule cardinality… make caller-owned cardinality explicit: submodule primary azapi_resource.this MUST NOT use count/for_each"* — and its body notes *"a follow-up issue after the previous merge showed the rule was still easy to misread"*. The spec was tightened on exactly this question, after all three PRs.

```suggestion
If the test can't show 0 destroys, the migration is not ready to ship. Where per-instance state moves are the blocker, use explicit `moved {}` blocks per key — see `avm-tf-migration` §2. Note that [TFRMNFR1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/resource/non-functional/TFRMNFR1.md) requires cardinality to live on the parent's submodule call, and the submodule's primary resource **MUST NOT** declare `count` or `for_each`. If that makes a migration impractical, raise it as a spec issue on `Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules` rather than deviating locally.
```

To be clear, I think the underlying pain is real — `moved` blocks can't be dynamically generated, which is a genuine gap. I'd back you raising that upstream. I just don't think we can settle it here.

Author: Added the TFRMNFR1 caller-owned-cardinality rule to the standing context, matching the fix on `avm-tf-migration`: the submodule primary `azapi_resource` MUST NOT declare `count`/`for_each`, and if that blocks a migration, raise it upstream rather than deviating.

Resolved: https://github.com/lestermarch/avm-terraform-governance/blob/f72a170/managed-files/root/.github/agents/avm-tf.agent.md#L39
